## Responses to _The Freudian Robot: Digital Media and the Future of the Unconscious_ by Lydia H. Liu

1. Link with Chinese Philosophy:

It is intersting to see the author compare the Chinese philosophy of Confucius's disciples and Daoist disciples for the discussion of the entanglement of humans and their machines. Discussions about the philosophy of two parties featured cultural and world view, so it is really inspiring to see Liu discuss how the modern digital media and the human-robot relationship reflected the ancient parable. I personally prefer Confucius's view of good of technology as I still believe that for now human beings enjoy more of the benefits of robots. But I agree that our view of the future and expectation of becoming immortal have been greatly changed by the introduction of robots. But this is also a feature of every epoch-making technology - transforming human beings perception of this world. With those machines and robots, we can understand this world further. 

2. Slave Theory:

Another thought provoking quote is "Some robot engineers such as Rodney Brooks try to distance themselves from the idea that humans use robots as their new slaves; Brooks asks, “Is there, or will there ever be, enough similarity to us in our humanoid robots that we will decide to treat them in the same moral ways we treat other people and, in varying degrees, animals?” The discussion of etymology of the word "Robot" implies the meaning of slave. But Sci-fi movies and real-world crisis just showed the possibility of human beings serving as slaves. I think it is really hard to define such relationship and to be conscious of such relationship when we are just experiencing the development of human-robot relations. But one thing needs to be noted is that treating robots as tools like Confucius or treating them like beings that is likely to be undistinguishable from us will lead to different stories.
