Autonomous Robots as Performing Agents Reading Response
======

This paper features the initial purpose and building progress of physical **puppotics** actors **Woggles**. Those robots combine artificial intelligence, robotics and poppetry, aiming to entertain their audience. Woggles are inspired with their virtual version, while the authors of this paper state that they believe physical version will be more entertaining and engaging than virtual agents. As actors, there is no script or plots for those robots to follow. Their performance are highly interaction-driven given that they will see what other woggles are doing through sensors. 

From my perspective, the authors' purpose to rebuild virtual version woggle to be physical version is a surprise when I noticed this was a paper written in 1996. I think for that era, the concept of virtual entertainment, performance and even artificial intelligence should be more interesting than today when those concepts are so popular. Building virtual agents and physical agents are really different as virtual agents are inherently beyond any physical limit. Twenty years later when we have virtual reality and even augmented reality to have fun, we have more demanding expectations for phycical robots. From the prototype version shown in the paper, it is hard for me to imagine how those physical woggles will perform to entertain me. It would be more impressive if we can see a performance video. But I highly appreciate this work as it illustrates the efforts required to build physical agents from a really fascinating idea.

The interaction between different roles highlighted in the paper also raised my interest. For woogles, interaction between agents is completely demonstrated through their autonomous physical interaction. But how performance might entertain audience is not only related to agents itself but also related to the context when audience watch the performance. The virtual version woggles have their own personalities and internal emotion, so how physical one can convey similar information remains to be a question for me. I think a qualified performance is not only the interaction between agents, directors and audience. A meaningful performance should be placed under a designed setting and have something apart from fun for audience. So how those performing robots based on logical implement can achieve such goal is what I want to explore in this course. Robots are born to be useful, while how we can make them artful through explicit communication is a challenge.
